So the next one, if we pull this back out,
is useImperativeHandle Example.
I'm going to venture and say you will
never use this, let's do it [LAUGH].
This is for libraries, I'm showing
you something that is really just for
libraries that are building
something on top of React, for
something like Formik, right?
I haven't looked at what Formik
does underneath the hood, but
I would very likely think that they would
use ImperativeHandle underneath it.
So, I do not blame you if you
don't go through this thoroughly.
It's good to know that there's
something like this exists, but
you don't really need learn it in depth.
So let's talk through the use
case really quick here,
I have this useImperativeHandle
Example right here.
And I have a city and state here, right?
Let's say that I have some form
that I wanna validate that
everything works correctly, right?
So I have in here Seattle, and let's say
the person forgot to put in the state.
And I wanna highlight this in red if
the person didn't do it correctly, right?
Pretty normal stuff, right?
There's other ways you can do this, but
I'm gonna show you how to do
it with useImperativeHandle.
So we're gonna have two things here,
one's called forwardRef,
which you have to use with
the useImperativeHandle.
And we have this function here
called useImperativeHandle.
So let's start here with our
ImperativeHandleComponent here.
You can think of this like
elaborate input function,
as like a piece of library code, right?
This would be something like maybe
your design system teams might make.
It might be something that an open
source library that you might be using.
But typically, you, developer working on
an app, you are not going to be writing
something like elaborate input yourself,
you're going to be consuming it, okay?
So we're writing this form, right?
And we have an ImperativeHandle
component here.
It's got a state, it's got a city,
and it has an error state as well.
So here with city element and
state element,
what this library might ask you to do,
is you can see down here.
We're passing a ref into the elaborate
input here and here, right?
Okay, this becomes important,
because later we write this
function here called validate.
Which again, I just directly
stole this from Stack Overflow,
barely modified it at all, so
normal programming kind of stuff, okay?
So if this doesn't work,
blame Stack Overflow, don't blame me.
Okay, so this just does a check to
see is the city a valid city, right?
And is the state a valid state.
And then here, if this matches, which
means there's an error in the city, right?
But I do as I said,
there's an error on city, so
setError("city") right there, right?
And then here, I call a function on the
current here so that it focuses, right?
So this becomes important here, right?
Because if someone's writing
something here, and they say,
let's just refresh the page,
stay on page, we can refresh it up here.
Down here, if the user has a problem here,
I want the focus to go on that input,
right?
So if I hit Delete here,
notice I'm not focused on it, but
if I click Validate Form, now I'm focused
again here, that's what I want to happen.
So that's where this forwardRef and
useImperativeHandle gets helpful.
So one, this is not possible unless
you do the forwardRef thing, right?
And then here,
I put the ref here on the input, right?
And then this forwardRef allows me to
expose this ImperativeHandle here.
Which allows a person to
call the ref.focus to allow
me to focus on that input.
I'm inverting the control here,
that's really the sum of the stories.
I'm inverting the control that typically
I ElaborateInput itself with call,
hey, I want you to focus on this, right?
Typically I would just pass in something,
I would use the normal one-way data flow.
But if I don't write that ElaborateInput,
if that's library code, I need some way to
expose that to the user, which is what
I'm doing here with input.current.focus.
Because the ref is controlled here
by the ImperativeHandle component,
Which I made, Here, right,
wherever I made that ref, hit these refs.
So you might be looking at this as like,
I don't really get it or care about it.
Both of those are totally fine, I just
want you to know that this is out there.
That if you somehow need to have this
inverted control in your application, one,
rethink about what you're doing, right?
If you control all of
the code top to bottom,
you can remodel this in a better way.
Where basically you just pass
in an error state here, and
then you call focus on that directly
in the child's component yourself.
But if you don't control that,
this is how you would handle that.
So, you're going to use this either if
you're an open source maintainer, or
if you're making a design system.
Cuz even this, again,
imagine that you don't write this,
this is something that's
coming in from a library.
This is still a weird API that you have
to make a ref and pass that in, right?
Most people are gonna be like,
why am I doing this?
So, anyway.